In this lecture, I'm going to talk about RBAC.
In the previous theory lesson, I explained that
RBAC is still in alpha for 1.3, but in the meantime,
there are a few newer competing versions
that came out, and RBAC is now stable.
It is also now enabled by default if you
download and install the latest version of kops.
So I will now cover RBAC, and then I will do a demo
to create user on the kops, and then
configure RBAC for that user.
Let's talk about authorization.
After authentication, authorization
controls what the user can do,
where does the user have access to.
The access controls are implemented
on an API level, using the kube-apiserver.
When an API request comes in, for example when you enter
kebectl get nodes, it will be checked to see whether you
have access to execute this command.
There are multiple authorization modules available.
You can use Node, a special purpose authorization mode
that authorizes API requests made by kubelets.
Attribute-based access control, access rights
are controlled by policies that combine attributes.
For example, the user Alice can do anything
in the namespace Marketing.
ABAC does not allow very granular permission control,
so it's not very interesting to use,
RBAC is a better choice.
So then we have RBAC, role based access control,
regulates access using roles, allows admins
to dynamically configure permission policies,
and this is what I will use in the demo.
And you also have Webhooks, sends authorization request
to an external REST interface.
It's an interesting option if you want
to write your own authorization server.
You can then parse the incoming payload,
which is JSON, and reply with the access
granted or access denied.
We are going to use RBAC of those options,
which is now enabled by default on most clusters.
To enable an authorization mode, you need
to pass authorization mode to the API server at startup.
For example, to enable RBAC, you pass
authorization mode equals RBAC.
Most tools now provision a cluster
with RBAC enabled by default, like kops and kubeadm.
For minikube, it will become default at some point,
there is an open issue for this.
In the meantime, to get this authorization mode passed,
you can use this following parameter,
minikube start extra config apiserver authorization mode
equals to RBAC, and then your minikube cluster
will also be running RBAC.
Once enabled, you can add RBAC resources
using kubectl to grant permissions.
You first describe them in yaml format,
then you apply them to the cluster.
First you define a role and then you can
assign users and groups to that role.
You can create roles limited to a namespace
or you can create roles where
the access applies to all namespaces.
The object Role is a single namespace,
and the ClusterRole is cluster-wide.
The object RoleBinding is a single namespace,
and the object ClusterRoleBinding is cluster-wide.
So every time you prefix Cluster,
it's gonna make cluster-wide.
So here's an example of an RBAC Role grating read access
to pods and secrets within the default namespace.
So this is of kind Role, not ClusterRole,
so this is specific to one namespace.
Here we define a namespace default.
You can then define the main apigroup,
so if you leave it empty, is the main apigroup.
Resources are pods and secrets,
and can get, watch, and list them.
Once you define a Role, then you can use a RoleBinding
to say I have a User bob, and that User bob needs
to get access to the Role pod-reader.
Still in the namespace default.
If you want to do the same thing within cluster-wide,
you just change kind from Role to ClusterRole,
and then you don't specify namespace, and you have
a ClusterRole that is cluster-wide,
that is over all the namespaces.
And then, instead of RoleBinding,
use ClusterRoleBinding, everything is still the same
except that here the namespace attribute is
not here anymore, so that's it.
And in next demo, I will show you how
to add a user in kops and give that user permissions.